All right well I've got all the fingers separated out and labeled now and need to work on the leg here.
It is all one object of course.
So in the same way I need to go into edit mode and hover over the upper leg and press the L key as well
as this upper leg joint here and I need to separate them out with the key.
And then I need to select it and give it a name and I'll call this leg up or underscore L and then this
lower leg piece go into edit mode and select these pieces hit the P key.
Separate that out
and we'll call that leg lower underscore Al and now the foot I'm going to zoom in here.
We should split this out.
This piece is going to rotate around the center of this sphere.
And the toe piece is going to rotate around the center of this joint.
So I need to split those out in that way.
So I also like the ankle joint and the heel here and separate these out and we'll call that foot he'll
underscore well and maybe we can call this one here foot toe underscore Al.
There we go.
So now I've got things fairly well broken out and labeled here.
I think now we can begin working on detailing each of the parts to do that.
I'm going to begin smoothing them.
I'm going to select say this body and I'm going to begin applying a subdivision surface modifier.
It looks like I still have a mere modifier on this I'm going to go ahead and apply that.
I don't need that anymore.
I need that to be all one piece now.
And so I'll apply another modifier.
This subdivision surface and that will smooth that object a bit.
I'm also going to come over here to the Tools tab and click on smooth shading and that will help smooth
it up a bit.
And it looks like if I do a subdivision to the view that looks pretty good I think I'll probably go
with that and I'll do the same for the cockpit here now.
I'm going to go through and smooth these pieces and the sphere.
I'm going to leave the fingers unsmooth.
So they're more blocky.
But if you want to add a subdivision surface modifier or any modifier for that matter to multiple objects
you can't just select.
If I selected let's say this hand's fear and the forearm and the upper arm and I went in I said add
subdivision service modifier.
Notice here it only adds it to the the last object I selected.
So it's really now only added to the upper arm.
So what you can do is you can say you can select multiple objects say I'm going to smooth the foot to
heal the lower leg the upper leg as well as the hand and upper arm.
Then I can select an object that is already smooth.
And now if I press control L I can link all of these with the same modifier.
So if I click modifiers now they all are smoothed with their own subdivision surface modifier.
So click smooth over here.
All right.
So now we've got our objects smooth and if you noticed they're a little bit gloppy like down here.
Let's take a look at the toe here you can see it's a little it's kind of collapsed.
Same with the ankle piece here it's kind of collapsed the the edges aren't holding anymore.
And the reason for that is we just don't have enough edges.
When you go through and add edge loops to hold the shape that we want it to be so save for this toe
piece here.
Let's take a look at this.
I'm going to turn the cage off here so we can see the original piece.
And with this I can do something like add edge loops here I can press control are and then scroll the
mouse wheel and and some edge loops here.
Maybe I'll add maybe I'll add five here and that will begin to give me a good shape here.
But there's still more that can be done along the edges.
For the foot I think I'm going to add an edge loop or the toe I'm going to add an edge loop up here
and maybe one down here
and I think I'd like to add an extrusion along here so I'm going to select this and I'm going to hit
E and then go immediately to my scale tool and scale this in a bit and I should be able to hold that
edge a little better now.
So let me go do that to this other side here.
Well hit the click hit s and scale and just a bit.
So now you can see it's looking a little bit more like a hard surface object a little more like we want
it to be.
I can take these edges here and scale them out like this and closer to the edge so that edge will be
a little bit tighter now on both sides.
I think what I'm also going to do is select these faces here and these faces here and I'm going to create
little bolts or indentations Here let me show you what I mean.
So with both of those sides selected what I can do is hit extrude.
And now I want to scale them in.
Now if I hit s.
Watch what happens as they scale and like that.
And that's not what I want.
I want to scale them in the z and the Y but not together in the X here.
What I can do is I can shift click and drag the axis.
I do not want to scale in.
So let me show you what I mean.
I'm going to press shift and click on the x axis and then scale and then drag and notice they're scaling
in only the axes.
I'm not selecting maybe something like that.
And then if I hit you again now I can scale them out in the X
go and then if I hit E again I can shift click the X and scale them in again like this.
So there we go.
Now I could even insert one more edge loop around here like this and tighten that up a bit.
And over here as well.
What if we wanted to bring these faces in.
So let me show you what I mean if I select these faces by pressing Allt and clicking on one of the edges
to make an edge loop I'll do the same thing over here with Allt shift like this.
Now what if I wanted to extrude those in what I could do is I get it easy and immediately click.
I'm going to hit E again and click and this time I'm going to shift select or shift click and drag that
x axis so that will collapse in a bit.
I couldn't I could bring them out or in whichever you want.
So.
So now what I do is press control are an insert say two edge loops here and then scale them out to hold
that edge.
And I can do the same thing over here two edge loops click and then scale these out like that.
So these are just ways of getting extra detail into your objects and smoothing them without losing the
shape that you want.
Let's take a look at this ankle piece.
Now I'm just going to work on this.
Same thing applies.
What I would like to do is tighten up these edges.
They look a little bit like they've kind of collapsed.
So what I'll do first is work on this edge here I'm going to press control are and that will insert
an edge loop right up here.
I can insert an edge loop right up here on top and I'm going to scroll the mouse wheel to insert two
of them click and that holds that edge a little better.
Now I'm going to take a look down here maybe I can insert an edge loop or maybe two of them down here
like so and maybe I can even insert a loop down here.
And move it in a bit to hold that shape and click something like that.
So now that I've got a little bit more of a hard edge along that joint I think I will also turn this
off.
I will also insert one more edge loop down here at the bottom to hold this like so
there we go.
So it just looks a little more mechanical and machined.
So what I'm going to do is work my way up the leg and up the arm and begin putting a little detail into
these by inserting edge loops.